jupyter notebook

LIBRARIES
pandas = a way of processing tabular data. Pandas is a way of loading data that exists in rows and columns and manipulate it afterwards, examine it, clean it up etc.
scikit = it includes code for doing statistical analysis like linear regression. 
numpy = it relates to the representation of arrays of data and multidimentional arrays. It is a way of representing information.
matplotlib.pyplot = helps with making graphs in python notebools
from scipy import stats = 
from scipy.stats import norm = 
from scipy.stats import poisson = 

pandas + scikit + numpy = So the way it usually goes is you might use pandas to load in your data and manipulate it and clean it up and understand it, and then translate that into a numpy array that then gets fed into scikit learn. And that translation often happens automatically.

CATEGORIES OF DATA
Numerical: Can be continous (like floats) or discrete (integers)  
Categorical: Categories of things (States of the US, kinds of fruit, colors)
Ordinal: They are like Likert scales

VARIANCE
Variance (σ2) is the average of the squared differences from the mean.
Example: What is the variance of the data set (1,4,5,4,8)?
First, find the mean (1+4+5+4+8)/5 = 4.4
Then find the differences from the mean: (-3.4, -0.4, 0.6, -0.4, 3.6)
Find the sqared difference: (11.56, 0.16, 0.36, 0.16, 12.96)
Find the average of the squared differences: 
Σίγμα στο τετράγωνο
σ2 = (11.56 + 0.16 + 0.36 + 0.16 + 12.96)/5 = 5.04

STANDARD DEVIATION
Standard deviation is the square root of the variance. So from the previous example:
σ2 = 5.04
σ = square root of 5.04 = 2.24
So the standard deviation of (1,4,5,4,8) is 2.24
This is usually used as a way to identify outliers. Data points that lie more than one standard deviation from the mean can be considered unusual.
You can talk about how extreme a data oint is by talking about "how many sigmas" away from teh mean it is. 

POPULATION VS SAMPLE
If you are working with a sample of data instead of an entire data set (the entire population) then you want to use the "sample variance" instead of the "population variance".
For N samples, you divide the squared variances by N-1 instead of N, where N is the number of data points. 
So, in our example, we computed the population variance like this:
σ2 = (11.56 + 0.16 + 0.36 + 0.16 + 12.96)/5 = 5.04
But assuming that the data was just a sample of a larger dataset, the sample variance would be:
S2 = (11.56 + 0.16 + 0.36 + 0.16 + 12.96)/4 = 6.3

PROBABILITY
A probability distribution function gives you the probability of a data point falling within some given range of a given value.


--------------------------------------------------
Master Machine Learning & AI Engineering — From Data Analytics to Agentic AI Solutions

Launch your career in AI with a comprehensive, hands-on course that takes you from beginner to advanced. Learn Python, data science, classical machine learning, and the latest in AI engineering—including generative AI, transformers, and LLM agents / agentic AI.

Why This Course?

Learn by Doing

With over 145 lectures and 21+ hours of video content, this course is built around practical Python projects and real-world use cases—not just theory.

Built for the Real World

Learn how companies like Google, Amazon, and OpenAI use AI to drive innovation. Our curriculum is based on skills in demand from leading tech employers.

No Experience? No Problem

Start from scratch with beginner-friendly lessons in Python and statistics. By the end, you’ll be building intelligent systems with cutting-edge AI tools.

A Structured Path from Beginner to AI Engineer

1. Programming Foundations
Start with a crash course in Python, designed for beginners. You’ll learn the language fundamentals needed for data science and AI work.

2. Data Science and Statistics
Build a solid foundation in data analysis, visualization, descriptive and inferential statistics, and feature engineering—essential skills for working with real-world datasets.

3. Classical Machine Learning
Explore supervised and unsupervised learning, including linear regression, decision trees, SVMs, clustering, ensemble models, and reinforcement learning.

4. Deep Learning with TensorFlow and Keras
Understand neural networks, convolutional neural networks (CNNs), and recurrent neural networks (RNNs), using real code examples and exercises.

5. Advanced AI Engineering and Generative AI
Go beyond traditional ML to learn the latest AI tools and techniques:

Transformers and self-attention mechanisms

GPT, ChatGPT, and the OpenAI API

Fine-tuning foundation models

Advanced Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)

LangChain and LLM agents

Designing and building multi-agent systems with the OpenAI Agents SDK

Real-world GenAI projects and deployment strategies

6. Big Data and Apache Spark
Learn how to scale machine learning to large datasets using Spark, and apply ML techniques on distributed computing clusters.

Designed for Career Growth

Whether you're a programmer looking to pivot into AI or a tech professional seeking to expand your skills, this course delivers a complete, industry-relevant education. Concepts are explained clearly, in plain English, with a focus on applying what you learn.

What Students Are Saying

"I started doing your course... and it was pivotal in helping me transition into a role where I now solve corporate problems using AI. Your course demystified how to succeed in corporate AI research, making you the most impressive instructor in ML I've encountered."
— Kanad Basu, PhD

Enroll Today and Build Your Future in AI

Join thousands of learners who have used this course to land jobs, lead projects, and build real AI applications. Stay ahead in one of the fastest-growing fields in tech.

Start your journey today—from Python beginner to AI engineer.

What you’ll learn
Build generative AI systems with OpenAI, RAG, and LLM Agents
Build artificial neural networks with Tensorflow and Keras
Implement machine learning at massive scale with Apache Spark's MLLib
Classify images, data, and sentiments using deep learning
Make predictions using linear regression, polynomial regression, and multivariate regression
Data Visualization with MatPlotLib and Seaborn
Understand reinforcement learning - and how to build a Pac-Man bot
Classify data using K-Means clustering, Support Vector Machines (SVM), KNN, Decision Trees, Naive Bayes, and PCA
Use train/test and K-Fold cross validation to choose and tune your models
Build a movie recommender system using item-based and user-based collaborative filtering
Clean your input data to remove outliers
Design and evaluate A/B tests using T-Tests and P-Values
Are there any course requirements or prerequisites?
You'll need a desktop computer (Windows, Mac, or Linux) capable of running Anaconda 3 or newer. The course will walk you through installing the necessary free software.
Some prior coding or scripting experience is required.
At least high school level math skills will be required.
Who this course is for:
Software developers or programmers who want to transition into the lucrative data science and machine learning career path will learn a lot from this course.
Technologists curious about how deep learning really works
Data analysts in the finance or other non-tech industries who want to transition into the tech industry can use this course to learn how to analyze data using code instead of tools. But, you'll need some prior experience in coding or scripting to be successful.
If you have no prior coding or scripting experience, you should NOT take this course - yet. Go take an introductory Python course first.